README.md, before:

# UrbanDocs App

Web platform to access the synthesis of the Ubran Documents in France using Firebase as host.

## Patch Notes

### Next Steps

Adding security layers, other methods of authentication and improving user experience.

Detail list of tasks in the [TODO list](./references/TODO.md).

### Version Update

```markdown
0.0.6 (May 13th 2025) - Complete redesign (base built with [Bolt](https://bolt.new/~/github-p2sgvptw))
0.0.5 (May 9th 2025) - Moved to Supabase Authentication (login & signup)
0.0.4 (May 3rd 2025) - Supabase Mail Confirmation
0.0.3 (April 27th 2025) - Firebase Authentication system for login
0.0.2 (April 26th 2025) - Update on the UI
0.0.1 (April 21st 2025) - Initial commit of the website
```

## Author

[![Static Badge](https://img.shields.io/badge/author-Panda-blue)](https://github.com/fllin1)

## Badges

![Firebase](https://img.shields.io/badge/firebase-a08021?style=for-the-badge&logo=firebase&logoColor=ffcd34)
![Supabase](https://img.shields.io/badge/Supabase-3ECF8E?style=for-the-badge&logo=supabase&logoColor=white)
![Webpack](https://img.shields.io/badge/Webpack-8DD6F9?style=for-the-badge&logo=Webpack&logoColor=white)
![JavaScript](https://img.shields.io/badge/javascript-%23323330.svg?style=for-the-badge&logo=javascript&logoColor=%23F7DF1E)
![Python](https://img.shields.io/badge/python-3670A0?style=for-the-badge&logo=python&logoColor=ffdd54)

## Documentation

### Setting Up

[![Static Badge](https://img.shields.io/badge/Firebase-App%20Hosting-red)](https://firebase.google.com/docs/app-hosting)
[![Static Badge](https://img.shields.io/badge/Firebase-Cloud%20Functions-red)](https://firebase.google.com/docs/functions)
[![Static Badge](https://img.shields.io/badge/Supabase-Documentation-light_green)](https://supabase.com/docs)
[![Static Badge](https://img.shields.io/badge/Reddit-Functions%20Rules-orange)](https://www.reddit.com/r/reactjs/comments/fsw405/firebase_cloud_functions_cors_policy_error/?rdt=48891)

In this project, only the *App Hosting* and *Cloud Functions* from **Firebase** were used. The storage of the data was done with **Supabase**. Lastly, for Firebase *gen2 functions*, refer to the reddit post on **Function Rules** to correctly update newly added rules in the Cloud Functions.

## Installation

You should make sure that you can Python and NodeJS.

Then setup your [Firebase CLI](https://firebase.google.com/docs/cli) on your local machine.

You should use a bundler such as [webpack](https://webpack.js.org/guides/getting-started/) and install the Supabase library as it serves as our database.

```bash
  npm install -D webpack webpack-cli copy-webpack-plugin html-webpack-plugin
  npm install @supabase/supabase-js firebase
  npm install -g firebase-tools  # Client firebase
```

Write first your JS modules in the `./src/` folder, add its name in the `./webpack.config.js`.

**NOTE** : You have just installed the *developper* version of webpack, in production mode, you might want to switch to the [production version](https://webpack.js.org/guides/production/).

### Roadblocks

1. If you encounter issues with your `pip` to install the dependencies, follow this [Youtube Tutorial](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=q_sayYt50oM).
2. **Set your [gcloud CLI](https://cloud.google.com/sdk/docs/install) account** (your gmail address should then appear on your terminal line). Then, after setting up your *Cloud Functions*, you should use the following terminal command to grand the necessary access to your functions.

    ```bash
      gcloud functions add-invoker-policy-binding $python_function_name --member=allUsers
    ```

## Environment Variables

To run this project, you will need to add the following environment variables to your ̀`./functions/.env` file :

```sh
SUPABASE_PROJECT_URL={PROJECT_URL}
SUPABASE_SERVICE_KEY={SERVICE_ROLE_KEY}
```

## Run Locally

You will first need to create a Firebase project, this part is not covered and will be tested at a later date.

1. Clone the project and go to the project directory

    ```bash
      git clone https://github.com/fllin1/urbandocs_webapp.git
      cd urbandocs_webapp
    ```

2. Firebase Init

    ```bash
      firebase init
    ```

    Choose to add the *Hosting* and *Cloud Functions* services.
    - For Hosting : The default values should be the right ones.
    - For Cloud Functions : Do not rewrite the files, and install the dependencies : Choose Python as the langagen then the default init configuration should be the right ones.

    NOTE : If you encounter issues while installing your dependencies, I invite you to check the [Roadblocks](#roadblocks) section and refer to the Youtube Tutorial.

3. If you wish to use webpack in development mode, the current `./webpack.config.js` is already configured for it. You can then start the emulator for a test run

    ```bash
      npm run dev
      firebase emulators:start
    ```

## Deployment

The first step would be to use webpack in **production mode**. In this case, you can simply build your project, the commands are already set in your `./package.json` file. Right after that you can deploy your project :

```bash
  npm run prod
  firebase deploy
```

## Code Structure

### Frontend

#### Source (JavaScript)

```text
src/
│
├── assets/
│   ├── fonts/
│   │   └── (...)                 # Font files used across the application
│   │
│   ├── icons/
│   │   └── (...)                 # SVG and other icon files
│   │
│   └── images/
│       └── (...)                 # Image assets for the site
│
├── css/
│   ├── base/
│   │   └── base.css              # Core styles and CSS resets
│   │
│   ├── components/
│   │   ├── buttons.css           # Button styles and variants
│   │   ├── forms.css             # Form elements and input styling
│   │   ├── messages.css          # Notification and message styles
│   │   └── spinner.css           # Loading spinners and animations
│   │
│   ├── layout/
│   │   ├── footer.css            # Footer layout and styling
│   │   ├── grid.css              # Grid system for page layouts
│   │   └── header.css            # Header and navigation styling
│   │
│   ├── pages/
│   │   ├── auth.css              # Styles specific to auth pages
│   │   ├── error.css             # Error page styling
│   │   └── home.css              # Homepage specific styles
│   │
│   ├── utils/
│   │   ├── animations.css        # Reusable animation classes
│   │   └── utilities.css         # Helper classes and utilities
│   └── main.css                  # Main CSS file that imports all modules
│
├── js/
│   ├── auth/                     # Authentication modules
│   │   ├── auth.js               # Common base functions
│   │   ├── login.js              # Functions specific to login
│   │   ├── signup.js             # Functions specific to signup
│   │   └── confirmation.js       # Functions specific to confirmation
│   │
│   ├── entries/                  # Entry points for webpack
│   │   ├── auth.js               # General entry point for authentication
│   │   ├── login.js              # Entry point for login.html
│   │   ├── signup.js             # Entry point for signup.html
│   │   └── confirmation.js       # Entry point for confirmation.html
│   │
│   ├── api.js                    # API to communicate with the backend
│   ├── app.js                    # Main entry point
│   ├── mappings.js               # Mappings for the application
│   ├── ui.js                     # Common UI functions
│   └── typewriter.js             # Text animation effects for landing page
│
├── 404.html                      # Custom 404 error page
├── confirmation.html             # Account confirmation page
├── index.html                    # Main landing page
├── login.html                    # User login page
├── profile.html                  # User profile management
├── signup.html                   # New user registration
└── terms.html                    # Terms and conditions page
```

#### Public (with `npm run dev`)

```text
public/
│
├── assets/
│   └── (same assets as dev)
│
├── js/
│   ├── api.bundle.js
│   ├── app.bundle.js
│   ├── mappings.bundle.js
│   ├── ui.bundle.js
│   ├── auth.bundle.js
│   ├── login.bundle.js
│   ├── signup.bundle.js
│   └── confirmation.bundle.js
│
├── css/
│   └── (same .css as dev)
│
└── (same .html as dev)
```

### Backend (Python)

```text
functions/
├── main.py                      # Entry point for Firebase functions
├── auth/                        # Functions related to authentication
│   ├── handle_login.py          # Function to handle login
│   ├── handle_signup.py         # Function to handle signup
│   └── handle_confirmation.py   # Function to handle email confirmation
│
├── docs/                        # Functions to retrieve Supabase data
│   ├── get_villes.py
│   ├── get_zonages.py
│   ├── get_zones.py
│   ├── get_typologies.py
│   └── get_document.py
│
└── utils/                       # Common utilities
    ├── supabase_client.py       # Supabase client initialization
    └── cors_config.py           # Common CORS configuration
```

## Licence

[![Licence](https://img.shields.io/github/license/Ileriayo/markdown-badges?style=for-the-badge)](./LICENSE)

Commit message:

feat : migrated all Firebase Cloud Functions to direct Supabase API calls, verify that the confirmation module works

README.md, after:

# UrbanDocs App

Web platform to access the synthesis of the Ubran Documents in France using Firebase as host.

## Patch Notes

### Next Steps

Adding security layers, other methods of authentication and improving user experience.

Detail list of tasks in the [TODO list](./references/TODO.md).

### Version Update

Version 0.0.* aims to create the first version of the website, making it presentable.

```md
0.0.7 (May 14th 2025) - Update password feature
0.0.6 (May 13th 2025) - Complete redesign, base built with [Bolt](https://bolt.new/~/github-p2sgvptw)
0.0.5 (May 9th 2025) - Moved to Supabase Authentication (login & signup)
0.0.4 (May 3rd 2025) - Supabase Mail Confirmation
0.0.3 (April 27th 2025) - Firebase Authentication system for login
0.0.2 (April 26th 2025) - Update on the UI
0.0.1 (April 21st 2025) - Initial commit of the website
```

_For version 0.1.*, we'll aim to imrove the UX, and our main focus will be to increase the speed (switch to Europe hosting, remove the firebase functions and implement supabase directrly on the user client)._

_For version 1.0.*, we'll aim to have a fixed solution, that is complete in features, UI and UX, with a well thought expendable base._

## Author

[![Static Badge](https://img.shields.io/badge/author-Panda-blue)](https://github.com/fllin1)

## Badges

![Firebase](https://img.shields.io/badge/firebase-a08021?style=for-the-badge&logo=firebase&logoColor=ffcd34)
![Supabase](https://img.shields.io/badge/Supabase-3ECF8E?style=for-the-badge&logo=supabase&logoColor=white)
![Webpack](https://img.shields.io/badge/Webpack-8DD6F9?style=for-the-badge&logo=Webpack&logoColor=white)
![JavaScript](https://img.shields.io/badge/javascript-%23323330.svg?style=for-the-badge&logo=javascript&logoColor=%23F7DF1E)
![Python](https://img.shields.io/badge/python-3670A0?style=for-the-badge&logo=python&logoColor=ffdd54)

## Documentation

### Setting Up

[![Static Badge](https://img.shields.io/badge/Firebase-App%20Hosting-red)](https://firebase.google.com/docs/app-hosting)
[![Static Badge](https://img.shields.io/badge/Firebase-Cloud%20Functions-red)](https://firebase.google.com/docs/functions)
[![Static Badge](https://img.shields.io/badge/Supabase-Documentation-light_green)](https://supabase.com/docs)
[![Static Badge](https://img.shields.io/badge/Reddit-Functions%20Rules-orange)](https://www.reddit.com/r/reactjs/comments/fsw405/firebase_cloud_functions_cors_policy_error/?rdt=48891)

In this project, only the *App Hosting* and *Cloud Functions* from **Firebase** were used. The storage of the data was done with **Supabase**. Lastly, for Firebase *gen2 functions*, refer to the reddit post on **Function Rules** to correctly update newly added rules in the Cloud Functions.

## Installation

You should make sure that you can Python and NodeJS.

Then setup your [Firebase CLI](https://firebase.google.com/docs/cli) on your local machine.

You should use a bundler such as [webpack](https://webpack.js.org/guides/getting-started/) and install the Supabase library as it serves as our database.

```bash
  npm install -D webpack webpack-cli copy-webpack-plugin html-webpack-plugin
  npm install @supabase/supabase-js firebase
  npm install -g firebase-tools  # Client firebase
```

Write first your JS modules in the `./src/` folder, add its name in the `./webpack.config.js`.

**NOTE** : You have just installed the *developper* version of webpack, in production mode, you might want to switch to the [production version](https://webpack.js.org/guides/production/).

### Roadblocks

1. If you encounter issues with your `pip` to install the dependencies, follow this [Youtube Tutorial](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=q_sayYt50oM).
2. **Set your [gcloud CLI](https://cloud.google.com/sdk/docs/install) account** (your gmail address should then appear on your terminal line). Then, after setting up your *Cloud Functions*, you should use the following terminal command to grand the necessary access to your functions.

    ```bash
      gcloud functions add-invoker-policy-binding $python_function_name --member=allUsers
    ```

## Environment Variables

To run this project, you will need to add the following environment variables to your ̀`./functions/.env` file :

```sh
SUPABASE_PROJECT_URL={PROJECT_URL}
SUPABASE_SERVICE_KEY={SERVICE_ROLE_KEY}
```

## Run Locally

You will first need to create a Firebase project, this part is not covered and will be tested at a later date.

1. Clone the project and go to the project directory

    ```bash
      git clone https://github.com/fllin1/urbandocs_webapp.git
      cd urbandocs_webapp
    ```

2. Firebase Init

    ```bash
      firebase init
    ```

    Choose to add the *Hosting* and *Cloud Functions* services.
    - For Hosting : The default values should be the right ones.
    - For Cloud Functions : Do not rewrite the files, and install the dependencies : Choose Python as the langagen then the default init configuration should be the right ones.

    NOTE : If you encounter issues while installing your dependencies, I invite you to check the [Roadblocks](#roadblocks) section and refer to the Youtube Tutorial.

3. If you wish to use webpack in development mode, the current `./webpack.config.js` is already configured for it. You can then start the emulator for a test run

    ```bash
      npm run dev
      firebase emulators:start
    ```

## Deployment

The first step would be to use webpack in **production mode**. In this case, you can simply build your project, the commands are already set in your `./package.json` file. Right after that you can deploy your project :

```bash
  npm run prod
  firebase deploy
```

## Code Structure

### Frontend

#### Source (JavaScript)

```text
src/
│
├── assets/
│   ├── fonts/
│   │   └── (...)                 # Font files used across the application
│   │
│   ├── icons/
│   │   └── (...)                 # SVG and other icon files
│   │
│   └── images/
│       └── (...)                 # Image assets for the site
│
├── css/
│   ├── base/
│   │   └── base.css              # Core styles and CSS resets
│   │
│   ├── components/
│   │   ├── buttons.css           # Button styles and variants
│   │   ├── forms.css             # Form elements and input styling
│   │   ├── messages.css          # Notification and message styles
│   │   └── spinner.css           # Loading spinners and animations
│   │
│   ├── layout/
│   │   ├── footer.css            # Footer layout and styling
│   │   ├── grid.css              # Grid system for page layouts
│   │   └── header.css            # Header and navigation styling
│   │
│   ├── pages/
│   │   ├── auth.css              # Styles specific to auth pages
│   │   ├── error.css             # Error page styling
│   │   └── home.css              # Homepage specific styles
│   │
│   ├── utils/
│   │   ├── animations.css        # Reusable animation classes
│   │   └── utilities.css         # Helper classes and utilities
│   └── main.css                  # Main CSS file that imports all modules
│
├── js/
│   ├── auth/                     # Authentication modules
│   │   ├── auth.js               # Common base functions
│   │   ├── login.js              # Functions specific to login
│   │   ├── signup.js             # Functions specific to signup
│   │   └── confirmation.js       # Functions specific to confirmation
│   │
│   ├── entries/                  # Entry points for webpack
│   │   ├── auth.js               # General entry point for authentication
│   │   ├── login.js              # Entry point for login.html
│   │   ├── signup.js             # Entry point for signup.html
│   │   └── confirmation.js       # Entry point for confirmation.html
│   │
│   ├── api.js                    # API to communicate with the backend
│   ├── app.js                    # Main entry point
│   ├── mappings.js               # Mappings for the application
│   ├── ui.js                     # Common UI functions
│   └── typewriter.js             # Text animation effects for landing page
│
├── 404.html                      # Custom 404 error page
├── confirmation.html             # Account confirmation page
├── index.html                    # Main landing page
├── login.html                    # User login page
├── profile.html                  # User profile management
├── signup.html                   # New user registration
└── terms.html                    # Terms and conditions page
```

#### Public (with `npm run dev`)

```text
public/
│
├── assets/
│   └── (same assets as dev)
│
├── js/
│   ├── api.bundle.js
│   ├── app.bundle.js
│   ├── mappings.bundle.js
│   ├── ui.bundle.js
│   ├── auth.bundle.js
│   ├── login.bundle.js
│   ├── signup.bundle.js
│   └── confirmation.bundle.js
│
├── css/
│   └── (same .css as dev)
│
└── (same .html as dev)
```

### Backend (Python)

```text
functions/
├── main.py                      # Entry point for Firebase functions
├── auth/                        # Functions related to authentication
│   ├── handle_login.py          # Function to handle login
│   ├── handle_signup.py         # Function to handle signup
│   └── handle_confirmation.py   # Function to handle email confirmation
│
├── docs/                        # Functions to retrieve Supabase data
│   ├── get_villes.py
│   ├── get_zonages.py
│   ├── get_zones.py
│   ├── get_typologies.py
│   └── get_document.py
│
└── utils/                       # Common utilities
    ├── supabase_client.py       # Supabase client initialization
    └── cors_config.py           # Common CORS configuration
```

## Licence

[![Licence](https://img.shields.io/github/license/Ileriayo/markdown-badges?style=for-the-badge)](./LICENSE)
